README.md, before:

# mine-nopoly

A Spigot (Bukkit) Minecraft plugin that implements automated Monopoly bank into the game.


## Features [WIP]

- [x] Monopoly bank functionality using a `chest` or a `barrel` in which game money items are placed and removed from
- [x] US, UK and RU localizations support
- [x] Player balance tracking using a scoreboard
- [ ] _Chance_ and _Community chest_ cards randomization
- [ ] _Houses_ implementation using sea pickles (can be placed up to four in a single block)
- [ ] A book with links to get game items and a list and descriptions of all game properties
- [x] Built-in dice randomizer
- [x] Monopoly bank block breaking protection; game items consuming/placement protection
- [x] Anti-counterfeiting game money items (default: `flint`, `coal`, `quartz`, `lapis_lazuli`, `iron_nugget`, `gold_nugget`, `emerald`) protection via [NBT data](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/NBT_format)


## Usage

### Commands
`/monopoly` is the main plugin command, which has the alias `/mp`.

| Command              | Description                                                                  |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/mp help [command]` | Show help for given command, for available commands otherwise                |
| `/mp start <block>`  | Start the game (chat tracking, scoreboard, etc) with given block as the bank |
| `/mp finish`         | Finish the game and save the log file                                        |
| `/mp finish forced`  | Finish even if not all game items have been returned                         |
| `/mp book`           | Get the book to use during the game                                          |
| `/mp reload`         | Reload config                                                                |
| `/mp get <args>`     | Auxiliary command used when clicking on links in the book                    |

### Valid in-game chat entries
_Note:_ Only available during the game.

| Chat entry  | Description                                                             |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `+<number>` | Place given amount of game money into the bank                          |
| `-<number>` | Remove given amount of game money from the bank (with change if needed) |
| `--`        | Remove all items from the bank (used _Chance_ cards, sold properties)   |
| `?`         | Roll the dice (two random numbers from 1 to 6)                          |


## Configuration ([default](/src/main/resources/config.yml))

- Game items (it is also possible to specify denominations for money)
- Plugin messages [WIP]
  - info
  - error
  - help


## Permissions
| Permission node            | Default | Description                                                             |
|----------------------------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `minenopoly.help`          | true    | Allows to use `/mp help` (lists only available commands)                |
| `minenopoly.get`           | true    | Allows to use `/mp get` and chat entries (allows to play basically)     |
| `minenopoly.start`         | true    | Allows to use `/mp start`                                               |
| `minenopoly.finish`        | true    | Allows to use `/mp finish` (without `forced` argument)                  |
| `minenopoly.finish.forced` | op      | Allows to use `/mp finish forced`                                       |
| `minenopoly.book`          | true    | Allows to use `/mp book`                                                |
| `minenopoly.reload`        | op      | Allows to use `/mp reload`                                              |
| `minenopoly.admin`         | op      | Refers to `minenopoly.reload` and `minenopoly.finish.forced` by default |


## Game field

Here is a [litematica](https://github.com/KruASe76/mine-nopoly/raw/main/additions/monopoly_field.litematic) of the game field designed by me, however, you can build your own!


## Reference

- [PlugManX](https://github.com/TheBlackEntity/PlugMan) (also used during development)
  - `README.md` structure
  - Some code
- [Monopoly Wiki](https://monopoly.fandom.com/wiki/Main_Page)
  - Property names, _Chance_ and _Community chest_ cards for US and UK editions


## Special thanks to:

- [Legitimoose](https://www.youtube.com/c/Legitimoose) for amazing Paper (Bukkit) plugin (in Kotlin) project setup [tutorial](https://youtu.be/5DBJcz0ceaw)
- [This portuguese guy](https://www.youtube.com/user/ReiDaViadagi) for showing me that I should add `kotlin-stdlib` to `plugin.yml`'s `libraries` section
- [BeBr0](https://www.youtube.com/c/BeBr0) for Spigot (Bukkit) plugin development [tutorial [ru]](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLlLq-eYkh0bB_uyZN4NdzkxLBs9glZmIT) with very clear API explanation

Commit message:

static data, half-get, shulker boxes, fixes, java version downgrade, dependencies upgrade, pom.xml magic

README.md, after:

# mine-nopoly

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/MINECRAFT-1.16.3+-966C4A?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=53AC56)
![](https://img.shields.io/badge/JAVA-1.8+-5283A2?style=for-the-badge&labelColor=E86F00)

A Spigot (Bukkit) Minecraft plugin that implements automated Monopoly bank into the game.


## Features [WIP]

- [x] Monopoly bank functionality using a `chest`, `barrel` or any `shulker_box` in which game money items are placed and removed from
- [x] US, UK and RU localizations support
- [x] Player balance tracking using a scoreboard
- [ ] _Chance_ and _Community chest_ cards randomization
- [x] _Houses_ implementation using sea pickles (can be placed up to four in a single block)
- [x] _Hotels_ lantern blocks immediate breaking without tools
- [ ] A book with links to get game items and a list and descriptions of all game properties
- [x] Built-in dice randomizer
- [x] Monopoly bank block breaking protection; game items consuming/placement protection
- [x] Anti-counterfeiting game money items (default: `flint`, `coal`, `quartz`, `lapis_lazuli`, `iron_nugget`, `gold_nugget`, `emerald`) protection via [NBT data](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/NBT_format)


## Usage

### How to play?emptyList

You just build a playing field, place a chest (can also be a barrel or a shulker box) somewhere and call `/mp start <chest coordinates>`!  
To get and remove game items use [chat entries](#valid-in-game-chat-entries) and the book you can get via `/mp book <language>`.  
_Houses_ and _Hotels_ are meant to be placed on street cells; all other items are meant not to be used in any way except keeping in the inventory and transferring between the players.  
To finish the game return all the game items to the bank (and type `--` to remove them) and call `/mp finish`; if you can't return them one of the server operators (by default) should call `/mp finish forced`.

### Commands

`/monopoly` is the main plugin command, which has the alias `/mp`.

| Command              | Description                                                                  |
|----------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `/mp help [command]` | Show help for given command, for available commands otherwise                |
| `/mp start <block>`  | Start the game (chat tracking, scoreboard, etc) with given block as the bank |
| `/mp finish`         | Finish the game and save the log file                                        |
| `/mp finish forced`  | Finish even if not all game items have been returned                         |
| `/mp book`           | Get the book to use during the game                                          |
| `/mp reload`         | Reload config                                                                |
| `/mp get <args>`     | Auxiliary command used when clicking on links in the book                    |

### Valid in-game chat entries

_Note:_ Only available during the game.

| Chat entry  | Description                                                             |
|-------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `+<number>` | Place given amount of game money into the bank                          |
| `-<number>` | Remove given amount of game money from the bank (with change if needed) |
| `--`        | Remove all items from the bank (used _Chance_ cards, sold properties)   |
| `?`         | Roll the dice (two random numbers from 1 to 6)                          |


## Configuration ([default](/src/main/resources/config.yml))

- Game items (it is also possible to specify denominations for money)
- Plugin messages [WIP]
  - info
  - error
  - help


## Permissions

| Permission node            | Default | Description                                                             |
|----------------------------|---------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `minenopoly.help`          | true    | Allows to use `/mp help` (lists only available commands)                |
| `minenopoly.get`           | true    | Allows to use `/mp get` and chat entries (allows to play basically)     |
| `minenopoly.start`         | true    | Allows to use `/mp start`                                               |
| `minenopoly.finish`        | true    | Allows to use `/mp finish` (without `forced` argument)                  |
| `minenopoly.finish.forced` | op      | Allows to use `/mp finish forced`                                       |
| `minenopoly.book`          | true    | Allows to use `/mp book`                                                |
| `minenopoly.reload`        | op      | Allows to use `/mp reload`                                              |
| `minenopoly.admin`         | op      | Refers to `minenopoly.reload` and `minenopoly.finish.forced` by default |


## Game field

Here is a [litematica](https://github.com/KruASe76/mine-nopoly/raw/main/additions/Monopoly_Field.litematic) of the game field designed by me, however, you can build your own!


## Reference

- [PlugManX](https://github.com/TheBlackEntity/PlugMan) (also used during development)
  - `README.md` structure
  - Some code
- [Monopoly Wiki](https://monopoly.fandom.com/wiki/Main_Page)
  - Property names, _Chance_ and _Community chest_ cards for US and UK editions


## Special thanks to:

- [Legitimoose](https://www.youtube.com/c/Legitimoose) for amazing Paper (Bukkit) plugin (in Kotlin) project setup [tutorial](https://youtu.be/5DBJcz0ceaw)
- [BeBr0](https://www.youtube.com/c/BeBr0) for Spigot (Bukkit) plugin development [tutorial [ru]](https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLlLq-eYkh0bB_uyZN4NdzkxLBs9glZmIT) with very clear API explanation

## Copyright

All the information about the original game used to develop this project was taken from open sources (mostly [Monopoly fandom wiki](https://monopoly.fandom.com/wiki/Main_Page)) and my personal experience.

The project itself is distributed under [GNU GPLv3](./LICENSE).
